# Frequently Asked Questions

If you have a question you'd like to add to this page, please let us know over on the Discord server!

You should also read the [explanation](explanation/ "mention") page for a more generalised overview of the most important facts.

<details>

<summary>How can I use a custom map style?<br><em>How can I prevent POI/labels rotating when the map rotates?</em><br><em>How can I remove certain POI/labels from the map?</em></summary>

Unfortunately, this library cannot provide this functionality. It has no control over the tiles displayed in the `TileLayer`. This is a limitation of the technology, not this library.

This is because raster tiles are just images generated by a 3rd party tile server (dictated by your URL template), and therefore cannot be changed by the library that displays the tiles. Filters can be applied to the entire tile, such as an emulated dark mode, but these effects do not look great.

However, tilesets can be styled. This is the most effective way of using custom styles. These methods may help you with this:&#x20;

* You may wish to use a commercial service like Mapbox Studio, which allows you to style multiple tilesets. See [using-mapbox.md](tile-servers/using-mapbox.md "mention").
* Alternatively, you can experiment with vector tiles. These are not pre-rendered, and so allow any style you desire to be applied on the fly. See [#vector-tiles](explanation/raster-vs-vector-tiles.md#vector-tiles "mention").
* Your last option is to serve tiles yourself. See [other-options.md](tile-servers/other-options.md "mention").

</details>

<details>

<summary>How can I route a user between two locations?</summary>

See [#routing-navigation](layers/polyline-layer.md#routing-navigation "mention").

</details>

<details>

<summary>How can I add a <code>Marker</code> where the user's location is?<br><em>How can I center the map on the user's location?</em></summary>

This is beyond the scope of flutter\_map. However, you can use the [community maintained plugin 'flutter\_map\_location\_marker'](https://github.com/tlserver/flutter\_map\_location\_marker) to do this.

Alternatively, use the 'location' and 'compass' packages to generate a stream of the user's location and heading, and feed that to a `Marker` using a `StreamBuilder`.

</details>

<details>

<summary>Changing the <code>center</code> or <code>zoom</code> doesn't seem to work</summary>

The `center` and `zoom` properties of `MapOptions` only apply on the map's initialisation: changing their state afterwards will have no effect.

To control the map programatically, use a `MapController`: [controller.md](usage/controller.md "mention").

</details>

<details>

<summary>How does flutter_map compare to other libraries?</summary>

This usually refers to libraries such as 'mapbox\_gl' and 'google\_maps\_flutter'. In some ways, it is better, in some it is worse.

flutter\_map wins on:

* Less vendor lock-in\
  You're not locked into a particular tile server with us - choose from hundreds of options, or build your own!
* Customizability & extensibility\
  Add all sorts of layers to display custom widgets and data on top of your map, and choose from flutter\_map's many community maintained plugins to add even more functionality!
* Ease of use/setup\
  We don't require any API keys or platform specific setup (other than enabling the Internet permission!), so you can get started quicker, and make changes without fear of breaking your release application.
* Support quality and frequency\
  Most questions are answered and resolved within 12-24 hours, thanks to our dedicated maintainers and community.&#x20;

However, alternatives may win on:

* Performance\*\
  flutter\_map's performance is very adequate for the vast majority of applications, and many big businesses use FM to provide maps in their Flutter app.\
  However, if you're using high-thousands of `Markers` or `Polygons` and such like, alternatives may win, purely because they use platform views and GL, and so can do calculations outside of Dart.
* ... and that's pretty much it

</details>

{% hint style="success" %}
We're adding questions here as we get them!
{% endhint %}
